Story Line of 2017 Prey

Your name is Morgan Yu, and you are a member of TranStar's leadership, the VP of Research. Your brother, Alex, is the CEO of TranStar, and your parents, William and Catherine, are the owners and are on the board of directors. Morgan joined TranStar in 2027, and was sent to Talos I in 2032. You are playing in an alternate timeline in which Russia and the US are in the space race together, working on a facility called Kletka(Russian for cage) to study Typhon. After President Kennedy’s failed assassination, the US pays for the rights to Kletka, and turns it into a high end research facility, under the name of Project Axiom. After two scientists die from Typhon attack, the station is cleaned and decommissioned. In 2025, TranStar buys the rights to Kletka/Axiom and turns it into Talos I, turning it into a modern research station and a testament to mankind’s achievement.


Being the VP of Research, you are part of the lead team developing the Psychoscope. During this time, the company begins testing neuromods on human subjects, injecting Typhon abilities into humans. You volunteer as the test subject, fully aware of the consequences of installing and removing neuromods--upon removal, your memory is reset to just before the neuromod was installed. Alongside this, constant installation and removal of neuromods gives the subject personality drift.


Before being put in the simulation loop that you awake at in the start of the game (Good morning, Morgan, today is March 15th, 2032), Morgan makes 3 distinct Operators (robots with AI personalities given by the creator, meant to basically mirror the thoughts and opinions of the creator) named October, December, and January. Each have different personalities and goals, due to the personality drift from removing neuromods. At some point during the testing, Morgan realizes what is going on and programs January with a directive to replace the neuromods Dr. Bellamy was going to use for testing with blank neuromods, therefore not giving him any abilities but also not having the side effect of memory loss upon removal. This is where the game starts, with you waking up and going to TranStar HQ for your tests. You get in the "helicopter" and head to TranStar HQ, and are greeted by your brother, telling you that you will quickly be going to space. While you are being examined, Dr. Bellamy is puzzled as to why you are performing the 3 tasks in such a normal way--you are supposed to have Typhon Powers installed (Lift Field for the boxes, Mimicry for the chair, and Remote Manipulation for the button across the room).


On the fourth phase of testing, Bellamy’s coffee mug (which appears on the desk suddenly if you watch closely) turns into a Mimic and attacks him, leaving him in critical condition. Green gas fills the room, you are knocked out, and you have your blank neuromods removed, which doesn’t wipe your memory. You wake up again, replaying the same scene from yesterday (Good morning, Morgan, today is March 15th, 2032). Everything in your apartment is back to the way it was yesterday, but your computer is filled with emails from January telling you to “Get out now.” You realize something is not right, so you make your way back out into the hallway after putting on your suit, only to see the maintenance worker dead. You pick up her wrench, and are forced to find a way out. After searching for a minute, you smash the big glass windows with your wrench, and enter into the Simulation Labs. This is where you realize that everything is not what it seems. The station has been overrun with Typhon organisms, and everything is dead quiet, with bodies scattered throughout the station.


You make your way out of the labs and receive a call from January, telling you to watch a video in your office. After finally making your way there, you see a video explaining to you everything that has happened, bringing you up to speed on the situation and what has happened as a consequence of constant removal and installation of neuromods. After this, you head to Psychotronics, only to be called by December and warned that you need to listen to him over January. If you decide to meet him, he is destroyed by January, who tells you not to listen to December. On his robot corpse, you find a note telling you the code of the safe hidden in Alex's office. Here you have a choice—follow January and destroy the station, or follow December and escape, leaving everyone and the research on the station with the Typhon. Alex also presents you with another option, which is to create the prototype nullwave device that will destroy the Typhon from the station entirely and leave the research.


Along with these choices, you have the chance to save 4 important main characters who pop up at different times. They are Dr. Igwe, Sarah Elazar, Mikhaila Ilyushin, and Danielle Sho. These characters, if saved, will give you materials and items and will be grateful for your help. As you progress through the station, you will see other side characters who you will have the chance to save that will also help you along your journey towards whatever path you choose. You will encounter different Typhon enemies during this time, who you can research with your psychoscope to be able to use neuromods to install their powers.


Towards the ending, TranStar’s board learns of the issues aboard Talos I and sends Commander Dahl and his army of Military Operators to kill everyone on board and keep the situation under wraps so the general public doesn’t hear about it. He will present you with numerous more obstacles in your path, as you now have to deal with him and his operators everywhere around the station. You will have a choice to save Dahl or kill him, among a few other options.


After fighting your way through the station towards the ending, the outcomes will change based on which end scenario you choose. If you leave the station in Alex’s escape pod by following December, you will be shown shooting out of the station in the escape pod. This goes to the end credits scene, where they tell you “This isn’t the one.” and is basically a game over.


If you choose to follow January and self destruct the station, you fabricate both arming keys and head to the power plant, place the keys, and activate the self destruct sequence. Alex calls you and informs you to come to the Bridge, where he and January are waiting for you. They both make their cases, and then January uses a stun gun-like shock on Alex to knock him out. Here you have the choice to push the button to complete the sequence. This ends the game.


If you choose to follow Alex, you fabricate the nullwave device and head to the Containment Lab in Psychotronics, place it on the heart of the Coral, and you get a call from Alex, telling you that he is waiting for you in the Bridge. You go there, and him and January are waiting for you. They both explain their cases for using the nullwave device and self-destructing, respectively. Alex then shoots January, and you have the choice to push the nullwave controls. This ends the game.


After the end credits, you wake up in “A Hidden Place” surrounded by 4 operators (Dr. Igwe, Sarah Elazar, Mikhaila Ilyushin, and Danielle Sho) and Alex. They explain to you that you were in a simulation. You are actually a Typhon-Human hybrid, injected with human based neuromods and mirror neurons. Alex flips the chair you are in around and shows you that Earth has already been overrun by the Typhon, and informs you that you were in a simulation based on a complex reconstruction of the real Morgan Yu’s memories. The 4 operators and Alex then evaluate your decisions, whether you saved people and made morally correct choices or made bad choices and were morally bankrupt. If they determine that you are good, then you are given the choice to either take Alex’s hand as a symbol of cooperation or kill everyone in the room.